---
template: page
title: glossary
---

<section class="section--center mdl-grid mdl-grid--no-spacing mdl-shadow--2dp">
	<div class="mdl-card__supporting-text">
		<h4>Intentional Community Glossary</h4>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Baugruppen:</span> <em>(German, lit: "Building groups")</em> aka <b>collective building</b> or <em>Baugemeinschaften</em>. Multi-story, <a href="https://www.theurbanist.org/2014/05/08/ready-set-build-collectively/">multi-family buildings</a> (think condos) rather than detached or semi-detached housing. There is no requirement for community space or common facilities, though many incorporate them (commonly: gardens, community rooms, roof terraces). However, like cohousing, <em>baugruppen</em> incorporate a participatory planning process. The largest difference is that <em>baugruppen</em> are generally funded without developers (they are self-financed).</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Building co-operative:</span> Co-operative housing corporation where individuals or families work together to directly construct their own homes in a cooperative fashion. Individuals usually own what they built afterwards, with common areas still owned by the co-op.</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Cohousing:</span> A <a href="http://www.cohousing.org/what_is_cohousing">community of private homes</a> clustered around shared space, usually within a suburban or rural context. The homes are privately-owned while the land is group-owned, usually under an LLC legal entity, and developer-financed. Shared outdoor space may include parking, walkways, open space, and gardens. Neighbors also share resources like tools and lawnmowers. Further differentiations exist within cohousing - <a href="http://www.cohousing.org/glossary">visit the Coho/US</a> glossary to learn more.</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Collective building:</span> <em>(closest English equivelant of "baugruppen")</em> A community of like-minded people that come together to design, fund (no developers), build, and inhabit a multi-unit structure in a dense urban environment. Each private unit functions like any other condo unit. There's usually a common area, community garden and solar panels on the roof terrace, and a guest unit. Sometimes the entire ground floor is leased out to restaurants or retail stores.</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Coliving:</span> Multiple individuals sharing a dwelling, usually a single house that is owned by one or more of the members.</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Commune:</span> The only type of community organized around sharing almost everything. Yes, the kind hippies formed in the 1970's. It is rarely successful in the long-term, usually due to social and/or financial problems.</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Ecovillage:</span> A community whose inhabitants seek to live according to ecological principles, causing as little impact on the environment as possible. Usually just a specific theme of cohousing.</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Intentional community:</span> An intentional community is a planned residential community designed from the start to have a high degree of social cohesion and teamwork. The members of an intentional community typically hold a common social, political, professional, or spiritual vision that provides a baseline social fabric. <em><b>NOTE:</b></em> All of the terms on this page are types of intentional communities.</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Student Housing or Co-ops:</span> Usually a dormatory or shared house specifically themed around student work.</p>
		<p><span class="glossary__term-title">Transition Towns:</span> The terms <b>transition town</b>, <b>transition initiative</b> and <b>transition model</b> refer to <a href="https://transitionnetwork.org/what">grassroot community projects</a> that aim to increase self-sufficiency to reduce the potential effects of peak oil, climate destruction, and economic instability. They usually materialize in neighborhoods and ecovillages, where there's much more emphasis on creating community-owned businesses like bakeries, breweries, and farms. They also generate thier own energy through sustainable technology, mainly solar and wind.</p>
	</div>
</section>